Entrepreneurship and Innovation Concentration
Successfully charting an entrepreneurial career path requires a multitude of skills. In building a new business, the
entrepreneur must be able to identify and assess potential opportunities and environments; acquire (or gain the right
to use) and protect key resources—financial, managerial, technical, etc.—that are necessary to pursue these
opportunities; develop strategies to generate market interest—all while managing organizational operations,
transitions, and growth. The Concentration in Entrepreneurship and Innovation involves a broad set of electives and
includes one course that provides hands-on experience.
The Concentration in Entrepreneurship and Innovation consists of a minimum of 6 courses chosen from those listed
below. Students must take both required courses, and at least 1 experiential course. Students may then select an
additional 3 courses from the areas of Finance and Accounting, Marketing, Management, and Real Estate as indicated
below. When selecting these 3 courses, students should bear in mind that the four critical success factors in starting a
new, innovation based venture are:
1. Understanding, qualifying and quantifying the market.
2. Understanding the venture’s competitive advantage and protecting associated assets, products and processes.
3. Constructing a financial plan and securing appropriate financing.
4. Building a team that can execute on the venture’s plan.
Required Courses:
STRATEGY 845 — Entrepreneurial Execution/Planning
STRATEGY 838 — Entrepreneurial Strategy
Experiential (choose at least 1 of the following courses):
BME 788 – Invention to Application
FINANCE 894 – Private Equity Buyout Lab
MANAGEMT 754 — Mentored Study in Entrepreneurship
MANAGEMT 895 — Fuqua Client Consulting Practicum or MANAGEMT 896 — Entrepreneurship Planning
Practicum
MARKETNG 895 — Fuqua Client Consulting Practicum
STRATEGY 848 — New Ventures Discover
STRATEGY 849 — New Ventures Develop
STRATEGY 851 — New Ventures Deliver
Students must be enrolled in specific subject matter (i.e. Strategy or Marketing) as indicated in the concentration requirements
above. This is most often an issue with FCCP courses, where all FCCP course numbers are 895, but the subject varies. For
example, if Strategy 895 (FCCP) is required, then a Marketing 895 (FCCP) would not count towards the concentration
requirements. Confirm your course enrollments in DukeHub.
Choose 3 courses from the lists below:
ACCOUNTG 591 — Managerial Accounting
ACCOUNTG 597 — Financial Statement Analysis
FINANCE 651 — Entrepreneurial Finance and Venture Capital
FINANCE 660 — Private Capital Markets
FINANCE 661 — Raising Capital and Financial Technologies
FINANCE 662 — Real Estate Entrepreneurship
FINANCE 898 – Entrepreneurship Through Acquisition
HLTHMGMT 712 — Medical Device Strategy
MANAGEMT 738 — Managing Innovation in a Global Organization
MANAGEMT 750 — Social Entrepreneurship
MARKETNG 796 — Market Research
MARKETNG 802 — Marketing of Innovations