Certificate of Academic Excellence in Finance
The Certificate of Academic Excellence in Finance (CAEF) distinguishes Duke MBA–Daytime students who
focus in the discipline and attain excellent grades in finance courses.
Certificate    Requirements
To earn the certificate, you must take at least 10 finance-related electives (beyond the core finance courses).
This corresponds to a dual finance concentration in corporate finance and investments plus an extra finance and
non-finance elective.
GPA   Requirement
You must achieve a grade-point average of 3.75 or better in these 10 courses to earn the certificate. If you
complete more than the minimum set of courses (adding, say, an extra corporate finance course), we will
compute your GPA over the highest qualifying grades.
Intermediate   Qualification
To signal to potential employers that you are on track to earn the certificate, you may note on your resume,
“Qualifying for a Certificate of Academic Excellence in Finance,” but only after completing at least 3 finance
electives and one non-finance elective, and only while maintaining a qualifying GPA across your certificate
courses.
Students wishing to obtain the Certificate of Academic Excellence in Finance are required to complete a total of
10 courses which are broken down below. Students should note that electives may have pre-requisite
requirements. In addition, not all finance electives are offered each year, and most electives are offered once
per year.
Request   to Add Certificate  to Student Record:
Click here to request to add a certificate to a student record.
2 required  courses:
FINANCE 646 - Corporate Finance
FINANCE 647 - Investment
Choose   2 of the following courses:
ACCOUNTG 592 - Detecting Earnings Management
ACCOUNTG 597 - Financial Statement Analysis
ACCOUNTG 598 - Valuation and Fundamental Analysis
Choose   2 of the following courses:
MGRECON 781 – The World Economy
DECISION 611 - Decision Models
DECISION 614 – Forecasting
DECISION 618 – Data Analytics for Business
FUQINTRD 697 – Innovation and Cryptoventures
Choose   at least 2 corporate electives and  2 investment   electives
from  the lists below.
Corporate Electives:
FINANCE 651 - Entrepreneurial Finance
FINANCE 654 - Advanced Corporate Finance
FINANCE 658 - Corporate Restructuring
FINANCE 660 - Venture Capital and Private Equity
FINANCE 661 - Raising Capital and Financial Technologies
FINANCE 898/FINANCE 652 - Project Finance
Investment Electives
FINANCE 648 - Derivatives
FINANCE 653 - Fixed-Income Securities and Risk Management
FINANCE 656 - Global Asset Allocation and Stock Selection
FINANCE 663 - International Finance
Certificates Overview
Finance Certificate
HSM Certificate