Management Concentration
The Concentration in Management is appropriate for students whose career focus is on managing people and
processes. In contrast to concentrations that focus on depth in a technical area, this concentration emphasizes
general skills for enhancing the performance of people and organizations. Relevant skills include organizing for
effective decisions, building strong interpersonal relationships, motivating others, and running successful teams.
These general abilities are relevant for students on 3 possible career tracks. First, they are relevant to graduates who
will be managing others directly out of Fuqua. Second, they are relevant to graduates who are initially hired into
technical positions, but who will be required to manage others as they are promoted to higher positions over time.
Third, they are relevant to graduates who wish to focus on management consulting.
All Fuqua students gain a basic breadth in functional knowledge through the core courses. This concentration focuses
on depth in skills for managing others. The curriculum primarily builds on behavioral research in organizational
behavior, psychology, and sociology. However, students are required to gain a complementary perspective grounded
in the formal methods of economics and statistics.
Coursework       Requirements:
Organizing and motivating (choose 4 of the following courses):
MANAGEMT 738 — Managing Innovation in a Global Organization
MANAGEMT 744 — Managerial Decision Making
MANAGEMT 745 — Negotiation
MANAGEMT 746 — Power and Influence
MANAGEMT 747 — Leadership
MANAGEMT 748 — Diversity and Talent Management
MANAGEMT 749 – Ethics in Management
Managing decisions (choose 1 of the following courses):
DECISION 611 — Decision Models
DECISION 614 — Forecasting
DECISION 618 – Data Analytics for Business
FINANCE 646 — Corporate Finance
MARKETNG 796 — Market Research
MGRECON 784 — The Art & Application of Game Theory
MGRECON 788 — Competitive Analysis
STRATEGY 842 — Strategic Modeling and Business Dynamics
Implementation and managing processes (choose 1 of the following courses):
ACCOUNTG 591 — Managerial Accounting
MARKETING 807 — Marketing Strategy
OPERATNS 823 – Operations Strategy
OPERATNS 828 — Value Chain Innovation in Business Processes
STRATEGY 841 — Strategy Implementation