Marketing Concentration
The Concentration in Marketing is designed for students who plan a career in which marketing plays a central role
and therefore seek an in-depth understanding of the concepts, tools, and practice of modern marketing. A career in
marketing may be developed in different settings, such as consumer goods, services, high-technology, business-to-
business, health care and consulting, leading to distinct career paths. The 6 courses in the concentration are intended
to prepare students with the knowledge and skills for these career paths.
The fundamental role of marketing is stewardship of the customer asset and managing the firm's brand equity,
requiring the mastery of 3 key skills:
1. Identify where value can be created by capturing and understanding the voice of the customer.
2. Deliver value to customers and thus manage the firm's brand equity via the tools available to a marketing
manager (e.g., the traditional 4 P’s of product, price, place, and promotion.)
3. Manage the customer and brand asset by choosing and managing the firm's relationships with its customers,
channel members, suppliers, and competitors.
Capturing and Understanding the Voice of the Customer: The marketing faculty recommends that first-year
students begin with skill 1 above, taking 1 or both of the 300-level electives aimed at capturing and understanding
the voice of the customer: Market Research (MARKETNG 796), a required course for the marketing concentration,
considers how to plan, collect, and interpret market research. Consumer Behavior (MARKETNG 797) will provide the
tools and frameworks for capturing the current and future needs of current and potential customers.
Delivering Value: Most of our marketing electives are aimed at skill 2 — delivering value to the customers by
managing the "4 P’s" of product, price, place, and promotion. There are 2 ways we offer this material. First, we have
courses that develop all 4 of these skills in specific contexts: Strategic Brand Management (MARKETNG 799) and
Marketing of Innovations (MARKETNG 802). We advise taking at least 1 of these courses early in your program.
Second, we offer The Strategy & Tactics of Pricing (MARKETNG 808) which focuses on "price."
Choosing and Managing Relationships of the Firm with Customers, Channel Members, Suppliers, and Competitors:
Second year students should learn skill 3 above — choosing and managing relationships of the firm with its customers,
channel members, suppliers, and competitors as covered in Marketing Strategy (MARKETNG 807). Hence, students
should come to this course with at least 1 course in skills 1 and 2.
Select 4 of the following Marketing electives:
Required Courses:
MARKETNG 796 — Market Research
MARKETNG 797 — Consumer Behavior
MARKETNG 799 — Strategic Brand Management
MARKETNG 808 — Strategy and Tactics of Pricing
MARKETNG 802 — Marketing of Innovations
MARKETNG 807 — Marketing Strategy
MARKETNG 808 — Strategy and Tactics of Pricing
MARKETNG 809 – Value Creation in MarTech
MARKETNG 898 – Value Creation in MarTech
Select 2 of the following non-Marketing electives:
ACCOUNTG 591 — Managerial Accounting
ACCOUNTG 592 — Detecting Earnings Management
ACCOUNTG 598 — Valuation and Fundamental Analysis
ACCOUNTG 592 — Detecting Earnings Management
DECISION 611 — Decision Models
DECISION 614 — Forecasting
DECISION 618 — Data Analytics for Business
FINANCE 646 — Corporate Finance
FINANCE 658 — Corporate Restructuring
FINANCE 660 — Private Capital Markets
HLTHMGMT 715 – The Marketing of Health and Wellness
MANAGEMT 745 — Negotiation
MANAGEMT 746 — Power and Influence
MANAGEMT 747 — Leadership
MANAGEMT 754 – Mentored Study in Entrepreneurship
MGRECON 788 — Competitive Analysis
OPERATNS 823 — Operations Strategy
OPERATNS 824 — Service Operations Management
OPERATNS 828 — Value Chain Innovation in Business Processes
STRATEGY 842 — Strategic Modeling and Business Dynamics
STRATEGY 853 — Advanced Corporate Strategy
STRATEGY 895 — Fuqua Client Consulting Practicum (STRATEGY FCCP)
Students must be enrolled in specific subject matter (i.e. Strategy or Marketing) as indicated in the concentration
requirements above. This is most often an issue with FCCP courses, where all FCCP course numbers are 895, but the
subject varies. For example, if Strategy 895 (FCCP) is required, then a Marketing 895 (FCCP) would not count
towards the concentration requirements. Confirm your course enrollments in DukeHub.